README.md, before:

# Python API Mini Demo

This project uses the lib "Flask" to build a simple REST API

## Prep - create environment

After cloning this repository:
Create a virtual environment where all packages, like Flask, will get installed to:

`python -m venv venv`
(execute this command in the folder of the repository, just like you would with "npm install")

This command will create a folder "venv" in your folder, which will never get checked into github.
(venv ist kind of like the "node_modules" folder in nodejs)

A Virtual environment is a way to install packages just on a project level, so just into your current project folder (=> venv) and not globally on your system.

## Activate Environment

Now first ACTIVATE this virtual environment:

Linux / Mac:
`source venv/Scripts/activate`

Windows:
`venv\Scripts/activate`

Now with the "venv" active, if you install any packages, they will get installed only locally into your folder.

## Install packages

Now install all package requirements, like Flask, for this project:

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

PIP is the Python Package Installer. Just like "npm" in Node.
And instead of a package.json file we got a plain textfile "requirements.txt" where all dependencies / needed packages are listed flat.

Now it should install Flask and all it's dependencies into your local "venv" folder.

You can check the installed packages:

`pip list --local`

It will just show the packages installed. for this project. Flask should be in that list, as well as some dependencies of Flask like "blinker".

## Start the API

Now run the project:

`python app.py`

It should start an API on http://127.0.0.1:8000

When you go there, you should see a welcome message.

By the way:
Also to START the app, you need the "venv" activates. Otherwises Python will look for the dependencies GLOBALLY on your system and will likely not find it there.
So always activate the venv before you start the project (see steps in "activate environment" above)

## Wenn Docker bei euch läuft

Image builden:
`docker build -t python-flask-demo .`

Container starten:
`docker run python-flask-demo`

Commit message:

Enhance README with Flask and Express comparison
Added comparison of Flask to Express in Node.

README.md, after:

# Python API Mini Demo

This project uses the lib "Flask" to build a simple REST API.

Flask is very similar to the package "express" in Node.

## Prep - create environment

After cloning this repository:
Create a virtual environment where all packages, like Flask, will get installed to:

`python -m venv venv`
(execute this command in the folder of the repository, just like you would with "npm install")

This command will create a folder "venv" in your folder, which will never get checked into github.
(venv ist kind of like the "node_modules" folder in nodejs)

A Virtual environment is a way to install packages just on a project level, so just into your current project folder (=> venv) and not globally on your system.

## Activate Environment

Now first ACTIVATE this virtual environment:

Linux / Mac:
`source venv/Scripts/activate`

Windows:
`venv\Scripts/activate`

Now with the "venv" active, if you install any packages, they will get installed only locally into your folder.

## Install packages

Now install all package requirements, like Flask, for this project:

`pip install -r requirements.txt`

PIP is the Python Package Installer. Just like "npm" in Node.
And instead of a package.json file we got a plain textfile "requirements.txt" where all dependencies / needed packages are listed flat.

Now it should install Flask and all it's dependencies into your local "venv" folder.

You can check the installed packages:

`pip list --local`

It will just show the packages installed. for this project. Flask should be in that list, as well as some dependencies of Flask like "blinker".

## Start the API

Now run the project:

`python app.py`

It should start an API on http://127.0.0.1:8000

When you go there, you should see a welcome message.

By the way:
Also to START the app, you need the "venv" activates. Otherwises Python will look for the dependencies GLOBALLY on your system and will likely not find it there.
So always activate the venv before you start the project (see steps in "activate environment" above)

## Wenn Docker bei euch läuft

Image builden:
`docker build -t python-flask-demo .`

Container starten:
`docker run python-flask-demo`
